---
title: 1.3.0
description: MarkInside Changelog.
template: splash
tag: 1.3.0
date: 2026-04-11
---

This update is all about templates. Templates, especially those in HTML mode, can unlock MarkInside’s possibility by adding new features to the app without updating the code!

Check the [templates we made here](markinside.intii.com/templates).

### Multiple blocks

Now you can break the code in the file into many blocks. It helps a lot if you need to create a really complicated file but still want it to be readable and even reusable.

### Template language

A template language is added to help you transform and include a block into another. Please see the new tab in the side panel to see the detail.

### Installing templates (optional)

You don’t need to install a template to use it, just select `Use Template` from the menu bar.

But installing brings better discoverability, and it's as easy as putting the file into a folder. We have added a `Template Collection` menu in the menu bar. You can use installed templates directly from there.

### Resize in HTML mode

Previously in HTML mode, you need to specify the width and height of the image ahead of time. But in normal life, HTML content’s size wouldn’t be known until it was rendered. Therefore, we provide a new `$markinside.resize` function for you to resize the image whenever you need.

### Other

- Tweaked UI, dark mode.
- HTML mode can no longer export to SVG. We may bring it back one day.
- Scripts in HTML mode will no longer need to have type module.
- Updated Mermaid to 9.1.7
- Updated MathJax to 3.2.2
